docs/src/content/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Welcome to herdctl
description: Infrastructure for running Claude Code agents at scale
---

import { Card, CardGrid, LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## What is herdctl?

**herdctl** is infrastructure for running [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) agents. That's all it is.

It lets you run agents **locally or in the cloud**, **isolated in Docker or on bare metal**, using either the **Claude Agents SDK** (Anthropic API billing) or the **Claude Code CLI** (your Claude Max subscription).

Each agent can be triggered on **any number of schedules**, exposed in **any number of Discord or Slack channels**, and you can run as many of them as you want in a **fleet**.

herdctl is not an AI system. It's not trying to solve AI problems. It's a thin orchestration layer for people who are **building and using AI agents built on Claude Code**.

## Intro Video

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; margin: 1rem 0;">
  <iframe
    style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/b3MRrpHLu8M"
    title="herdctl demo"
    frameborder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
    allowfullscreen>
  </iframe>
</div>

## Deployment Options

| Where | How | Billing |
|-------|-----|---------|
| Local machine | Bare metal | Claude Max or API |
| Local machine | Docker | Claude Max or API |
| Cloud server | Bare metal | Claude Max or API |
| Cloud server | Docker | Claude Max or API |

**Runtime choice**: Use `runtime: cli` to run via the Claude Code CLI (uses your Claude Max subscription), or `runtime: sdk` (default) to use the Claude Agents SDK (billed via Anthropic API).

**Docker isolation**: Enable `docker.enabled: true` for kernel-level isolation with network namespaces, resource limits, and domain whitelisting. Your host system stays protected.

## Triggers

Agents can be triggered by:

- **Schedules** — interval (`every: 30m`) or cron (`cron: "0 9 * * *"`)
- **Chat** — Discord or Slack messages
- **Work sources** — GitHub Issues, webhooks (coming soon)
- **Manual** — `herdctl run agent-name "do something"`

Or any combination. An agent can have multiple schedules, be in multiple Discord or Slack channels, and pull work from GitHub Issues all at once.

## What herdctl is NOT

herdctl is deliberately minimal. It does not:

- Provide its own AI capabilities (it runs Claude Code)
- Manage prompts or prompt engineering (that's your agent's system prompt)
- Handle tool development (use MCP servers)
- Provide a UI for building agents (write YAML config)

If you want to build AI agents on Claude Code and need infrastructure to run them, herdctl is for you. If you want an all-in-one AI platform, look elsewhere.

## Configuration as Code

Everything in herdctl is configured via YAML files that you can source-control alongside your code.

The agent config is essentially a wrapper around Claude Code's own configuration. Anything you can set in Claude Code or the Claude Agents SDK — tool permissions, MCP servers, permission mode, model, system prompt — you can set here. herdctl adds a few top-level keys for its own features: `runtime`, `docker`, `schedules`, and `chat`.

### Fleet configuration

A fleet is just a list of agent config paths:

```yaml
# herdctl.yaml
version: 1

fleet:
  name: my-fleet
  description: My agent fleet

defaults:
  model: sonnet
  max_turns: 50

agents:
  - path: ./agents/code-reviewer/herdctl-agent.yaml
  - path: ./agents/docs-writer/herdctl-agent.yaml
  - path: ../other-repo/herdctl-agent.yaml
```

### Agent configuration

Each agent has its own config file. This can live in the same repo as the code the agent works on:

```yaml
# herdctl-agent.yaml
name: code-reviewer
description: Reviews PRs and suggests improvements

# Use CLI runtime to use Claude Max subscription instead of API
runtime: cli

# Run in Docker for security isolation (safe options only at agent level)
docker:
  enabled: true
  memory: "2g"

# Point to an existing Claude Code project with skills/sub-agents
working_directory: /path/to/my/project

# Wake up on schedules
schedules:
  - name: hourly-review
    every: 1h
    prompt: "Check for new PRs and review them"

# Respond to Discord messages
chat:
  discord:
    bot_token_env: REVIEWER_DISCORD_TOKEN
    guilds:
      - id: "${DISCORD_GUILD_ID}"
        channels:
          - id: "${DISCORD_CHANNEL_ID}"
            mode: mention

# Standard Claude Code permissions
allowed_tools:
  - Read
  - Glob
  - Grep
  - WebFetch
  - "Bash(git *)"
  - "Bash(gh *)"
```

Sensitive Docker options like `env` must be configured at fleet level (see [tiered security model](/configuration/docker/#tiered-security-model)):

```yaml
# herdctl.yaml (fleet config)
agents:
  - path: ./agents/code-reviewer/herdctl-agent.yaml
    overrides:
      docker:
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: "${GITHUB_TOKEN}"
```

Because `working_directory` points to your existing Claude Code project, any CLAUDE.md files, skills, sub-agents, and MCP server configs you have there are automatically available to the agent.

### Environment variables

Secrets go in a `.env` file in the same directory as your `herdctl.yaml`. When you run `herdctl start`, it loads these automatically and makes them available for substitution in your agent configs via `${VAR_NAME}` syntax.

```bash
# .env (add to .gitignore!)

# Each agent needs its own Discord bot token
REVIEWER_DISCORD_TOKEN=your-reviewer-bot-token
DOCS_WRITER_DISCORD_TOKEN=your-docs-writer-bot-token

# Shared Discord server info
DISCORD_GUILD_ID=123456789
DISCORD_CHANNEL_ID=987654321

# GitHub tokens (can be different per agent if needed)
GITHUB_TOKEN=ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxx

# For SDK runtime (API billing)
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-xxxxxxxxxxxx

# For CLI runtime with Claude Max
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN=your-oauth-token
```

This keeps secrets out of source control while letting you route the right credentials to each agent.

## Next Steps

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Getting Started"
    description="Install herdctl and run your first agent"
    href="/getting-started/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Core Concepts"
    description="Learn about agents, schedules, jobs, and sessions"
    href="/concepts/agents/"
  />
</CardGrid>

---

Built by [Ed Spencer](https://edspencer.net)

Commit message:

docs: add web dashboard, Slack, and chat package to README and docs site (#77)

docs/src/content/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Welcome to herdctl
description: Infrastructure for running Claude Code agents at scale
---

import { Card, CardGrid, LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## What is herdctl?

**herdctl** is infrastructure for running [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) agents. That's all it is.

It lets you run agents **locally or in the cloud**, **isolated in Docker or on bare metal**, using either the **Claude Agents SDK** (Anthropic API billing) or the **Claude Code CLI** (your Claude Max subscription).

Each agent can be triggered on **any number of schedules**, exposed in **any number of Discord or Slack channels**, and you can run as many of them as you want in a **fleet**.

Every fleet can be monitored via the built-in **[web dashboard](/integrations/web-dashboard/)** — real-time status, live output streaming, agent chat, and schedule controls, all in your browser.

herdctl is not an AI system. It's not trying to solve AI problems. It's a thin orchestration layer for people who are **building and using AI agents built on Claude Code**.

## Intro Video

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; margin: 1rem 0;">
  <iframe
    style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/b3MRrpHLu8M"
    title="herdctl demo"
    frameborder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
    allowfullscreen>
  </iframe>
</div>

## Deployment Options

| Where | How | Billing |
|-------|-----|---------|
| Local machine | Bare metal | Claude Max or API |
| Local machine | Docker | Claude Max or API |
| Cloud server | Bare metal | Claude Max or API |
| Cloud server | Docker | Claude Max or API |

**Runtime choice**: Use `runtime: cli` to run via the Claude Code CLI (uses your Claude Max subscription), or `runtime: sdk` (default) to use the Claude Agents SDK (billed via Anthropic API).

**Docker isolation**: Enable `docker.enabled: true` for kernel-level isolation with network namespaces, resource limits, and domain whitelisting. Your host system stays protected.

## Triggers

Agents can be triggered by:

- **Schedules** — interval (`every: 30m`) or cron (`cron: "0 9 * * *"`)
- **Chat** — Discord or Slack messages
- **Work sources** — GitHub Issues, webhooks (coming soon)
- **Manual** — `herdctl run agent-name "do something"`

Or any combination. An agent can have multiple schedules, be in multiple Discord or Slack channels, and pull work from GitHub Issues all at once.

## What herdctl is NOT

herdctl is deliberately minimal. It does not:

- Provide its own AI capabilities (it runs Claude Code)
- Manage prompts or prompt engineering (that's your agent's system prompt)
- Handle tool development (use MCP servers)
- Provide a drag-and-drop agent builder (agents are defined in YAML)

If you want to build AI agents on Claude Code and need infrastructure to run them, herdctl is for you. If you want an all-in-one AI platform, look elsewhere.

## Configuration as Code

Everything in herdctl is configured via YAML files that you can source-control alongside your code.

The agent config is essentially a wrapper around Claude Code's own configuration. Anything you can set in Claude Code or the Claude Agents SDK — tool permissions, MCP servers, permission mode, model, system prompt — you can set here. herdctl adds a few top-level keys for its own features: `runtime`, `docker`, `schedules`, and `chat`.

### Fleet configuration

A fleet is just a list of agent config paths:

```yaml
# herdctl.yaml
version: 1

fleet:
  name: my-fleet
  description: My agent fleet

defaults:
  model: sonnet
  max_turns: 50

agents:
  - path: ./agents/code-reviewer/herdctl-agent.yaml
  - path: ./agents/docs-writer/herdctl-agent.yaml
  - path: ../other-repo/herdctl-agent.yaml
```

### Agent configuration

Each agent has its own config file. This can live in the same repo as the code the agent works on:

```yaml
# herdctl-agent.yaml
name: code-reviewer
description: Reviews PRs and suggests improvements

# Use CLI runtime to use Claude Max subscription instead of API
runtime: cli

# Run in Docker for security isolation (safe options only at agent level)
docker:
  enabled: true
  memory: "2g"

# Point to an existing Claude Code project with skills/sub-agents
working_directory: /path/to/my/project

# Wake up on schedules
schedules:
  - name: hourly-review
    every: 1h
    prompt: "Check for new PRs and review them"

# Respond to Discord messages
chat:
  discord:
    bot_token_env: REVIEWER_DISCORD_TOKEN
    guilds:
      - id: "${DISCORD_GUILD_ID}"
        channels:
          - id: "${DISCORD_CHANNEL_ID}"
            mode: mention

# Standard Claude Code permissions
allowed_tools:
  - Read
  - Glob
  - Grep
  - WebFetch
  - "Bash(git *)"
  - "Bash(gh *)"
```

Sensitive Docker options like `env` must be configured at fleet level (see [tiered security model](/configuration/docker/#tiered-security-model)):

```yaml
# herdctl.yaml (fleet config)
agents:
  - path: ./agents/code-reviewer/herdctl-agent.yaml
    overrides:
      docker:
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: "${GITHUB_TOKEN}"
```

Because `working_directory` points to your existing Claude Code project, any CLAUDE.md files, skills, sub-agents, and MCP server configs you have there are automatically available to the agent.

### Environment variables

Secrets go in a `.env` file in the same directory as your `herdctl.yaml`. When you run `herdctl start`, it loads these automatically and makes them available for substitution in your agent configs via `${VAR_NAME}` syntax.

```bash
# .env (add to .gitignore!)

# Each agent needs its own Discord bot token
REVIEWER_DISCORD_TOKEN=your-reviewer-bot-token
DOCS_WRITER_DISCORD_TOKEN=your-docs-writer-bot-token

# Shared Discord server info
DISCORD_GUILD_ID=123456789
DISCORD_CHANNEL_ID=987654321

# GitHub tokens (can be different per agent if needed)
GITHUB_TOKEN=ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxx

# For SDK runtime (API billing)
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-xxxxxxxxxxxx

# For CLI runtime with Claude Max
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN=your-oauth-token
```

This keeps secrets out of source control while letting you route the right credentials to each agent.

## Next Steps

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Getting Started"
    description="Install herdctl and run your first agent"
    href="/getting-started/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Core Concepts"
    description="Learn about agents, schedules, jobs, and sessions"
    href="/concepts/agents/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Web Dashboard"
    description="Monitor your fleet and chat with agents from the browser"
    href="/integrations/web-dashboard/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Chat Integrations"
    description="Connect agents to Discord, Slack, or the web dashboard"
    href="/integrations/discord/"
  />
</CardGrid>

---

Built by [Ed Spencer](https://edspencer.net)
